---
layout: post
title: 1818 Alberni
date: '2022-06-09 02:06:12 -0700'
slug: 1818-alberni
description: 1818 Alberni is a multilayered experience in elevated luxury living.
  The parkside and cityside location is simply unsurpassed.
image: "/assets/images/posts/1818-alberni/1818-alberni-west-end-stanley-park-condos-sale.jpg"
cover: "/assets/images/posts/1818-alberni/1818-alberni-west-end-stanley-park-condos-sale.jpg"
---

1818 Alberni is a multilayered experience in [elevated luxury living](https://landaglobal.com/1818alberni/). The parkside and cityside location is simply unsurpassed, offering the best of both worlds—peaceful nature and urban convenience—right at your door. In one direction is Stanley Park, offering invigorating walks amid towering trees and plentiful park space to explore and admire. In the other direction are Vancouver’s unlimited urban experiences, with a world-class array of exciting excursions and everyday essentials. Boutiques and beaches. Parks and pain au chocolat. Seawall and social life. You’ll be inspired by every element of this multifaceted setting.

**Suite of Services**

Owners at 1818 Alberni get personalized concierge services to ensure any support you require is instantly accessible. Contact the concierge to easily book from an array of exclusive services that make everyday life easier and elevate special occasions to another level:

- Summer yacht rental
- Laundry dry cleaning and pressing
- Private chef
- Pet grooming, walking and sitting
- Complimentary move-in
- Car wash service
- Interior design consultation
- Rolls-Royce car service with chauffeur

**Italian Kitchens**

Three-bedroom residences feature marble stone upper cabinets (available as an upgrade in two-bedroom homes), along with matching marble counters and backsplash. Premium lacquered lower cabinets create a stunning backdrop while offering generous storage. A spacious marble island offers ample territory for dinner party hors d’oeuvres and champagne flutes. A best-in-class appliance package by Wolf and Sub-Zero reinforces the refined ambiance, while integrated LED lighting casts a gentle glow that highlights every stunning surface.

**Spa-like Ensuites**

The primary ensuites are designed to create a relaxed spa-like atmosphere within the comforts of home, where premium Italian floating vanities and natural stone counters enhance the elevated interiors. In three-bedroom residences, a luxurious steam shower and freestanding stone tub provide space for serious self-care. In-floor heating delivers cozy comfort no matter the season.

**Building Intelligence**

1818 Alberni includes innovative and seamlessly integrated [1VALET](https://1valet.com) smart building technology to enhance your convenience and comfort. It starts with secure keyless building access that enables owners to enter using facial recognition at the main entrance—key and phone not required.

**Smart-Home Solutions**

With Bang & Olufsen, your ideal environment is created with just the touch of a button. A convenient in-wall touchscreen offers unified control of your environment, allowing you to create an ambiance tailored to your preferences. Choose from predefined lighting scenes, including vibrant Welcome or gently lit Romantic, ensure an ideal climate in every season, and adjust the multiroom audio to set just the right level for any occasion or event.

**Prime Fitness**

Owners enjoy exclusive access to a fitness facility featuring state-of-the-art equipment by Technogym—including weight-training, cardio, spin bikes and yoga space—that enables you to personalize your workout and track your progress. Elevate your heart rate or enjoy a relaxing and restorative stretching session in a bright, comfortable and well-appointed space without ever setting foot outside.

_Credit: Rennie, Landa_
